.TH RLOCATED 1 "August 15, 2007"
.\" *************************** NAME *********************************
.SH NAME
rlocated \- rlocate daemon
.\" *************************** SYNOPSIS *********************************
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlocated
[\fIoptions\fP]
.\" *************************** DESCRIPTION *********************************
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrlocated\fP is daemon that reads /dev/rlocate device file and writes the
content to the rlocate database difference file. The rlocate kernel module fills
up the /dev/rlocate device file. The database difference file merged with 
rlocate database, which is created once a day, is used by rlocate to search in 
up-to-date version of the database.
.\" *************************** OPTIONS *********************************
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-n 
.I \-\-nodaemon
Do not run in daemon mode.
.TP
.I \-l
.I \-\-noloop
Don't run in loop.
.TP
.I \-i <seconds>
.I \-\-interval=<seconds>
Refresh every n seconds.
.TP
.I \-o <file>
.I \-\-output=<file>
Specify the rlocate database.
.TP
.I \-h
.I \-\-help
Display help.
.TP
.I \-V
.I \-\-version
Display version.
.\" *********************** CONTROLLING RLOCATED ****************************
.SH "CONTROLLING RLOCATED"
.LP
\fBrlocated\fP performs certain actions when it receives certain signals.
.TP 15
.I SIGHUP
causes the rlocated to re-read the config file.
.TP
.I SIGTERM, SIGINT, SIGKILL
causes program termination.
.\" *********************** FILES ****************************
.\".SH FILES
.\".LP
.\".PD .1v
.\".TP 20
.\".B /etc/rlocate/rlocate.conf
.\"default configuration file
.\".PD
.\" *********************** SEE ALSO ****************************
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "rlocate(1),"
.BR "updatedb(1),"
.BR "rlocate-checkpoint(1)"

.\" *********************** VERSION ****************************
.SH VERSION
rlocated v0.5.6

.\" *********************** AUTHOR ****************************
.SH AUTHOR
Rasto Levrinc - Copyright (c) 2004,2005

.\" *********************** BUG REPORT ************************
.SH BUG REPORT
Report any bugs to Rasto Levrinc <e9526925@stud3.tuwien.ac.at>


