.TH RLOCATE 1 "August 15, 2007"
.SH NAME
rlocate \- Security Enhanced version of the GNU Locate, that is always 
up-to-date 
.SH SYNOPSIS
rlocate [\-qi] [\-d <path>] [\-\-database=<path>] <search string>
.br
rlocate [\-i] [\-r <regexp>] [\-\-regexp=<regexp>]
.br
rlocate [\-qv] [\-o <file>] [\-\-output=<file>]
rlocate [\-e <dir1,dir2,...>] [\-f <fstype1,...>] [\-c] <[\-U <path>] [\-u]>
[\-I] [\-\-initdiffdb] [\-\-fast\-update] [\-\-full\-update]
.br
rlocate [\-Vh] [\-\-version] [\-\-help]
.br
.br
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
   rlocate provides a secure way to index and quickly search for files on your 
system. This locate is always up-to-date with the help of rlocate kernel module.
It uses incremental encoding just like GNU locate to compress its database to 
make searching faster, but it will also ensure that users will not see files 
they do not have access to. 
.PP
   This manual page documents the GNU version of
.BR rlocate .
.B rlocate
Enables system users to search entire filesystems without
displaying unauthorized files.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-u
Create rlocate database starting at path /.
.TP
.I \-U <dir>
Create rlocate database starting at path <dir>.
.TP
.I \-e <dir1,dir2,...>
Exclude directories from the rlocate database.
.TP
.I \-f <fstype1,...>
Exclude files on specific filesystems from the rlocate database.
.TP
.I \-c
Parse '/etc/updatedb.conf' when updating the rlocate database.
.TP
.I \-i
Does a case insensitive search.
.TP
.I \-q
Quiet mode.  Error messages are suppressed.
.TP
.I \-n <num>
Limit the amount of results shown to <num>.
.TP
.I \-r <regexp>
.I \-\-regexp=<regexp>
Search the database using a basic POSIX regular
expression.
.TP
.I \-o <file>
.I \-\-output=<file>
Specifies the database to create.
.TP
.I \-d <path>
.I \-\-database=<path>
Specifies the path of databases, delimited with ':', to search in.
.TP
.I \-I
.I \-\-initdiffdb
Initializes the diff database if user database is created. If default database
is created --initdiffdb is implied.
.TP
.I \-\-fast-update
Force fast update of the default database.
.TP
.I \-\-full-update
Force full update of the default database.
.TP
.I \-h
.I \-\-help
Display this help.
.TP
.I \-v
.I \-\-verbose
Verbose mode. Display files when creating database.
.TP
.I \-V
.I \-\-version
Display version.

.SH VERSION
rlocate v0.5.6

.SH AUTHOR
Rasto Levrinc - Copyright (c) 2004,2005

.SH BUG REPORT
Report any bugs to Rasto Levrinc <e9526925@stud3.tuwien.ac.at>

.SH WEB
http://rlocate.sourceforge.net/
