.TH UPDATEDB 1 "August 15, 2007"
.SH NAME
updatedb \- update the rlocate database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B updatedb
[\-u] [\-U path] [\-e path1,path2,...] [\-f fstype1,...] [\-l [01] ] [\-q]
[\-v,\-\-verbose] [\-I] [\-\-initdiffdb] [\-\-fast\-update] [\-\-full\-update]
[\-V, \-\-version] [\-h, \-\-help] pattern...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page
documents 
.BR rlocate ,
a security-enhanced version of locate that is always up-to-date.
.BR updatedb
is simply a link to rlocate that implies the -u option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-u"
Create rlocate database starting at the root directory.
This is the default behavior when called as
.B updatedb.
.TP
.I "\-U \fIpath\fP"
Create rlocate database starting at path \fIpath\fP.
.TP
.I "\-e \fIdirs\fP"
Exclude directories in the comma-separated list \fIdirs\fP
from the rlocate database.
.TP
.I "\-f \fIfstypes\fP"
Exclude filesystems in the comma-separated list \fIdirs\fP
from the rlocate database.
.TP
.I "\-o \fIfile\fP"
.I "\-\-output=\fIfile\fP"
Specifies the database to create.
.TP
.I "\-I"
.I "\-\-initdiffdb"
Initializes the diff database if user database is created. If default database
is created --initdiffdb is implied.
.TP
.I "\-\-fast-update"
Force fast update of the default database.
.TP
.I "\-\-full-update"
Force full update of the default database.
.TP
.I "\-q"
Quiet mode; error messages are suppressed.
.TP
.I "\-v"
Verbose mode; display files indexed when creating database
.TP
.I "\-\-help"
Print a summary of the options to
.B rlocate
and exit.
.TP
.I "\-\-version"
Print the version number of
.B rlocate
and exit.
.SH VERSION
updatedb v0.5.6

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBrlocate\fP(1L)
